We're gonna write some tests.
The thing that everyone loves
doing is writing tests.
I promise you it's
actually really cool and
easy with Express
especially the tools now.
So some of the tools that we're gonna be
using to write some tests include Jest,
ever heard of Jest?
It's basically a ripoff of Mocha and
Jasmine but
does a really good job honestly.
And Supertest, we'll be using that too.
We'll talk about those two different
things and why we're gonna use them.
In the meantime let's install some things,
let's grab this and install, and
I'll talk about what these things are.
So Supertest is a tool that's
gonna allow us to do what's
called integration testing.
I'll talk about what that is.
And then we just download
the TypeScript types for it.
Jest is a testing framework just
like Express is a server framework,
just like React is a client framework,
and allow us to write some tests and
the types for that.
And then ts-jest allows
us to write our Jest and
TypeScript Okay, so
we got all those things.
The next thing we wanna do is we
want to run npx ts-jest config:init.
What this is gonna do is create
a configuration file on our project for
Jest.
We don't even have to touch it.
We just need it there.
You can leave it alone.
Okay, so different types of tests.
We have a unit test.
Anybody here wanna describe unit test?
Don't look at my stuff.
Just talk about it,
don't look at my definition.
I know people here have
written unit tests.
I know you've written unit tests.
What's a unit test?
>> I mean, in the unit test
we're just testing the unit
of whatever you're writing.
Suppose, if you are contacting to
the database you are not testing the code
which getting the data from database, or
testing the code only, what you are doing
after getting the record from database and
then you're running some logic.
So, writing tests for your unit of code.
>> Yeah, well said I don't think I
could have said it better myself.
Pretty much exactly what
you said it's just testing
the individual logic bits
isolated from everything else.
Not in like conjunction and
how they all work together, but
how does this one function work?
Let me test that.
You know like, and nothing else.
And even then within that
function it's like, well,
I just wanna test that one
branch within that function, or
I wanna test what happens if
I do just this one argument.
Like it's just testing individual things
in isolation versus testing systems and
abstractions because then you started
getting into integration testing,
end to end testing all
different types of testing.
So that's what unit test is.
So let's look at an example of what,
in order to write unit tests
you need to have testable code.
So when you're writing your code you have
to be thinking about can I even test this?
Is this testable?
And that's something that you
should always be asking yourself.
One of the things I look at a lot when I'm
like reviewing people people's code is how
are you going to test this?
This is brilliant, like I don't know
how you did this, this is amazing,
but how are you gonna test this?
How do we keep it brilliant,
how do we keep it amazing?
Because it is actually untestable as
you put the whole app in one function.
So [LAUGH] I don't know what
we're supposed to do here, okay?
So let's look at an example
of not testable code.
So we wanna write a test for
this action function.
We can, but even with only three or
four lines of code this is
actually really hard to test.
I'll tell you why.
One, it's not exported so I don't know how
we'll even get a reference to it somehow.
Two, it's literally creating a closure
with this variable outside of here.
So we're not actually exporting this
function, so we can't really test it.
The second thing is it's creating
a closure by reaching out and
grabbing this variable in another scope.
So if we wanted to export this
function into another file, well it
has this extra dependency that we have no
access to, that's a closure over here.
Good luck mocking that out,
good luck changing that.
You're just making it really hard.
So that's not really testable.
But it looks so innocent.
It looks like we mean it was really quick
little function, why is this not testable?
Well, the testable version
will look something like this.
It's exported, so
we can import it by itself.
And instead of reaching out and
grabbing something or creating a closure,
it declares it as an argument and
it can be parsed in.
This is great because in our tests we can
pass in different values here to see what
the result would be, which is amazing that
way we can test the behavior, we can try
to break the function, we can see what
happens under different conditions.
We can never do that here.
How would you change the value
of value inside your tests?
I don't know how,
I don't know how you would do it.
It's actually impossible [LAUGH]
without some type of hack.
So you would have to write the test
in the same file as its function.
I would imagine it'd be really weird.
I don't know how you do it.
But here it's not a problem.
Okay, this function is not bound to the
file that it's in whereas this function
is pretty much bound to this value.
It cannot move without
functioning differently